# ASP.NET MVC Datatables ExtensionsASP.NET MVC extension methods for jQuery [Datatables](http://datatables.net).##Installation###Adding a reference to the project####NuGetThe most simple way is to use NuGet. Open NuGet Console and write:    PM > Install-Package Datatables.Extensions####Manual installationYou can also add a reference manually. Just download this source code, build it and add a single _Datatables.Extensions.dll_ to the web project.###Adding namespaces to the views web.configThan you have to add namespaces _Datatables.Extensions_ and _Datatables.Extensions.Namespaces_ to the views _web.config_ (typically in _/Views/web.config_) so you can use extensions in markup:    <configuration>     <system.web.webPages.razor>       <pages pageBaseType="System.Web.Mvc.WebViewPage">         <namespaces>           ...           <add namespace="Datatables.Extensions" />           <add namespace="Datatables.Extensions.Namespaces" />         </namespaces>       </pages>     </system.web.webPages.razor>    </configuration>##Usage###Server sideJust return the JSON with the array of objects.###Adding javascripts and styleTo order Datatables to work as expected, just link all the Datatables javascript and style files to the page as usual. Can be downloaded from [Datatables download page](http://datatables.net/download/index).###Creating sectionAt first create a Razor section called _jQueryOnReadyScripts_ in the _/Views/Shared/\_Layout.cshtml_  page, so there is a place where the Datatables initialization scripts can be placed.    <script type="text/javascript">        jQuery(document).ready(function($) {            @RenderSection("jQueryOnReadyScripts", false)        });    </script>###Creating tableAs the next, create the HTML table itself with the header on the page where you want the Datatable (f.e. _/Views/Orders/Index.cshtml_):    <table id="orderTable">        <thead>            <tr>                <th>Id</th>                <th>OrderNumber</th>                <th>Name</th>            </tr>        </thead>    </table>###Initializing javascriptsThan initialize Datatables javascripts by calling the extension methods:    @Url.Datatables().CreateDatatable(string selector, string actionName, string controllerName, string areaName)* _string **selector**_ - jQuery selector pointing to the html table, f.e. "#orderTable" from the example above* _string **actionName**_ - action name of the controller method where data are loaded from* _string **controllerName**_ - controller name where data are loaded from* _string **areaName** (optional)_ - area name of the controller where the data are loaded from###Adding columns####Simple text column    @Url.Datatables().CreateDatatable(...).AddColumn(string propertyName)* _string **propertyName**_ - name of the property binded to the column####Link column    @Url.Datatables().CreateDatatable(...).AddLinkColumn(string propertyName, string actionName, string controllerName, string areaName, object routeValues)* _string **propertyName**_ - name of the property binded to the column* _string **actionName**_ - action name of the controller where the link is pointing to* _string **controllerName**_ - controller name where the link is pointing to* _string **areaName** (optional)_ - area name of the controller where the link is pointing to* _object **routeValues**_ - additional parameters. Only the '_new { id = "{id}" }_' can be used now####Yes/No column    @Url.Datatables().CreateDatatable(...).AddYesNoColumn(string propertyName, string trueValue, string falseValue)* _string **propertyName**_ - name of the property binded to the column* _string **trueValue**_ - string that will be displayed if the binded column value is _true_. HTML is allowed* _string **falseValue**_ - string that will be displayed if the binded column value is _false_. HTML is allowed####Format column    @Url.Datatables().CreateDatatable(...).AddFormatColumn(string propertyName, string format)* _string **propertyName**_ - name of the property binded to the column* _string **format**_ - format of the binded column. F.e. "_$ {0}_"####Custom Javascript column    @Url.Datatables().CreateDatatable(...).AddCustomJavascriptColumn(string propertyName, string javascript)* _string **propertyName**_ - name of the property binded to the column* _string **javascript**_ - javascript code as would be written for pure Datatables. Just '{' and '}' characters must be doubled###InitializingFinally you have to call method _Initialize()_ to print the javascript to the page    @Url.Datatables().CreateDatatable(...).Add..().Initialize()##Example    @Url.UBold().Datatables().CreateDatatable("#list", "GetOrders", "Home", "System").AddLinkColumn("Name", "Edit", "Suppliers", "System", new { id = "{id}" }).AddYesNoColumn("IsActive", "Yes", "No").AddFormatColumn("Price", "$ {0}").AddCustomJavascriptColumn('if (full.StateId === 0) {{ return 'Active'; }} else {{ return 'Unactive'; }}').Initialize()Where _#list_ is a jQuery selector pointing to a html table, _GetOrders_ is an action name, _Home_ is a controller name and _System_ is an area name.Than you add a first column with a link to an orders edit page.  Second column ads "_Yes_" or "_No_" accroding to the bool value of the column.  Next one adds _$_ before the value of the price column.  The last one adds text '_Active_' if the _StateId_ is _0_, otherwise '_Unactive_' is printed.Finally you have to call an _Initialize()_ method to print the script to the page.###InformationI'm adding a new functionality as I go along with my needs. So any pull requests are welcome!